JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Gwen Ifill is on assignment.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
Donald Trump and
Hillary Clinton trade barbs on
major foreign
policy issues after a town hall
centered on
what it takes to be commander in
chief.
Then: The Republican nominee
still refuses
to release his income tax
returns.
We take a deep dive into what
they could tell
us about Donald Trump the
candidate and the
businessman.
And catching a wave in
California to learn
about China's rise in
manufacturing and how
that's leaving some American
workers out to
dry.
STEVE BOEHNE, Infinity
Surfboards: Ninety-five
percent of the boards being sold
in the world
weren't made by us in
California, who started
the surfboard industry.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Russian leaders,
American generals,
sensitive e-mails, and more, all
of it the
JUDY WOODRUFF: Russian leaders,
American generals,
sensitive e-mails, and more, all
of it the
stuff of the presidential
campaign over the
past 24 hours.
John Yang has our report.
JOHN YANG: This morning, Hillary
Clinton didn't
even wait for her first campaign
stop of the
day, attacking Donald Trump
before boarding
her plane.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
Last night was yet another test,
and Donald
Trump failed yet again.
We saw more evidence that he is
temperamentally
unfit and totally unqualified to
be commander
in chief.
JOHN YANG: It was in response to
the candidates'
back-to-back appearances last
night on an
NBC News military forum.
Trump was asked about Russian
President Vladimir
Putin's praise for him.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
If he says great things about
me, I'm going
to say great things about him.
I have already said, he is
really very much
of a leader.
I mean, you can say, oh, isn't
that a terrible
thing?
He called -- the man has very
strong control
over a country.
Now, it's a very different
system, and I don't
happen to like the system.
But, certainly, in that system,
he's been
a leader, far more than our
president has
been a leader.
JOHN YANG: Today, that brought
Clinton's strongest
rebuke.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: That's
not just unpatriotic
and insulting for the people of
our country,
as well as to our commander in
chief.
It is scary.
JOHN YANG: Last night, a former
Naval officer
challenged Clinton about her
handling of classified
material.
MAN: How can you expect those
such as myself
who were and are entrusted with
America's
most sensitive information to
have any confidence
in your leadership as president
when you clearly
corrupted our national security?
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: You know
and I know
classified material is
designated.
It is marked.
There is a header, so that there
is no dispute
at all that what is being
communicated to
or from someone who has that
access is marked
classified.
I communicated about classified
material on
a wholly separate system.
I took it very seriously.
JOHN YANG: Another big topic at
the forum
was the fight against ISIS in
Iraq and Syria.
Clinton insisted she would never
put ground
troops into Iraq again.
And Trump was asked about his
claim that he
knows more about ISIS than the
generals.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
The generals under Barack Obama
and Hillary
Clinton have not been
successful.
MATT LAUER, NBC News: Do you
know more about
ISIS than they do?
DONALD TRUMP: I think under the
leadership
of Barack Obama and Hillary
Clinton, the generals
have been reduced to rubble.
They have been reduced to a
point where it's
embarrassing for our country.
JOHN YANG: Half-a-world away,
President Obama
responded as he closed out his
trip to Asia.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
I don't think the guy is
qualified to be president
of the United States.
And every time he speaks, that
opinion is
confirmed.
And I think the most important
thing for the
public and the press is to just
listen to
what he says and follow up and
ask questions
about what appear to be either
contradictory
or uninformed or outright wacky
ideas.
JOHN YANG: Foreign policy also
figured prominently
today for libertarian candidate
Gary Johnson,
though he may have wished it
hadn't.
On MSNBC's "Morning Joe," he was
asked about
a much-discussed war-torn Syrian
city.
MIKE BARNICLE, MSNBC: What would
you do if
you were elected about Aleppo?
GARY JOHNSON, Libertarian
Presidential Candidate:
About Aleppo.
And what is Aleppo?
MIKE BARNICLE: You're kidding.
GARY JOHNSON: No.
MIKE BARNICLE: Aleppo is in
Syria.
It's the epicenter of the
refugee crisis.
GARY JOHNSON: OK.
Got it.
JOHN YANG: The long-shot
candidate later said
there was no excuse for the
confusion.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We will return to
the issue
of relations with Russia, and
how Donald Trump
and Hillary Clinton differ on
that, after
the news summary.
In other news: The president is
on his way
home tonight from that summit
with Southeast
Asian leaders.
It was his final planned trip to
the region
before leaving office, and he
rejected criticism
that his pivot to Asia has
fallen short.
BARACK OBAMA: The concern that I
have heard
is not that what we have done
hasn't been
important and successful.
The concern that I have heard
is, will it
continue?
And almost uniformly, the
question I get from
other leaders is, we hope that
America's interest
and presence and engagement is
sustained.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mr. Obama also
pledged again
to do all he can to get the
Trans-Pacific
trade pact through Congress
before he leaves
office.
In Afghanistan, Taliban fighters
pushed deep
into a provincial capital before
being repulsed.
Hundreds of militants overran
government checkpoints
around the city of Tirin Kot in
Uruzgan Province.
Local officials fled as Taliban
fighters got
within a few hundred yards of
the governor's
compound.
Finally, reinforcements and
allied airstrikes
pushed them back.
Russia announced today that
Israeli and Palestinian
leaders have agreed in principle
to meet in
Moscow, to relaunch peace talks.
But no date was set.
Meanwhile, two Israeli
researchers reported
finding documents that show
Palestinian President
Mahmoud Abbas was a Soviet spy
in the 1980s.
Abbas' office denied it, all of
this as Israel
began work on an underground
barrier along
the Gaza border.
It's meant to stop militants
from digging
tunnels to carry out attacks.
Lawmakers in Britain declared
their own Parliament
Building an impending crisis
today.
A special committee recommended
that the complex
be vacated in order to allow
sweeping repairs
estimated to cost the equivalent
of $4.7 billion.
Paul Brand of Independent
Television News
reports.
CHRIS BRYANT, U.K. Parliament
Member: Outside
the tourist marvel at the mother
of all parliaments,
but hidden from sight, it houses
the mother
of all problems, its walls
crumbling with
damp, roofs leaking, and
asbestos lurking
somewhere down here.
And then, if you look here, you
see that there's
a gas there -- gas main -- and
it sits immediately
next to the danger high voltage.
PAUL BRAND: This M.P. heads up a
committee
which has decided it's becoming
too dangerous.
CHRIS BRYANT: The risk is, and
it's growing
year by year, and we have taken
far too long
to address it, the risk is of
some kind of
catastrophic failure.
If we want to preserve this
iconic historic
building, we have got the seize
the opportunity
now.
PAUL BRAND: But the renovation
could cost
up than four billion pounds and
take up to
eight years to complete, partly
because the
oldest bit of the building dates
back 900
years, with the rest rebuilt in
1840 after
a fire burned down much of the
previous place.
The big question, of course, is
where everyone
goes while the work is being
done.
And the answer for M.P.s is
here, Richmond
House, the Department of Health.
Doesn't look like much from the
outside and
there's no bathroom on the
inside, but it
does have space for a debating
chamber.
Meanwhile, the Lords get the
plusher QEII
conference center just down the
road, as they
too insist it is a good use of
money.
WOMAN: For all of us who live
here, all of
us who are taxpayers, we know
that we have
got to spend money on lots of
things that
are vital to us.
But this is one of those things.
I can't say it's more important
than something
else, but it is equally
important.
PAUL BRAND: The decision on
Parliament's future
will now be put to Parliament
itself.
M.P.s and Lords will have a
final vote on
the plans.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The last time the
members of
Parliament had to move out was
during World
War II, when German bombs set
the House of
Commons on fire.
Former Virginia Governor Bob
McDonnell received
good news today.
Federal prosecutors announced
that they will
not retry him, or his wife, on
corruption
charges.
The McDonnells were convicted in
2014 of accepting
$175,000 in gifts and loans to
promote a dietary
supplement.
But, in June of this year, the
U.S. Supreme
Court ruled that McDonnell never
took any
action that violated bribery
laws.
The U.S. Olympic Committee has
suspended swimmer
Ryan Lochte for 10 months over a
drunken incident
at the Rio Olympics.
The action today means that
Lochte is ineligible
for next year's World Swimming
Championships.
He also forfeits $100,000 in
Olympic bonus
money.
Meanwhile, in Rio, the
Paralympic Games got
under way with swimming and
track and field
events.
That followed last night's
opening ceremonies
in Maracana Stadium.
More than 4,300 athletes from
some 160 countries
are taking part in the Games.
The Russian team is not there.
It was banned for
state-sponsored doping.
And on Wall Street today, the
Dow Jones industrial
average lost 46 points to close
near 18480.
The Nasdaq fell 24, and the S&P
500 gave up
nearly five.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
how the next
president can be expected to
deal with Russia;
Donald Trump's refusal to
release his tax
returns put in context; what
surfing has to
do with business competition
from China; and
much more.
A major topic throughout this
election year
surfaced again last night at the
presidential
candidate forum on national
security, Russia,
and what kind of relations the
U.S. should
have with Vladimir Putin.
Here's some of what Donald Trump
had to say,
followed by Hillary Clinton's
response today.
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE:
I think I would have a very,
very good relationship
with Putin, and I think I would
have a very,
very good relationship with
Russia.
MATT LAUER, NBC News: Let me ask
you about
some of things you have said
about Vladimir
Putin.
You said, "I will tell you, in
terms of leadership,
he's getting an A. Our president
is not doing
so well."
DONALD TRUMP: Well, he does have
an 82 percent
approval rating, according to
the different
pollsters.
MATT LAUER: He's also a guy who
annexed Crimea
and, according to our
intelligence community,
probably is the main suspect for
the hacking
of the DNC computers.
DONALD TRUMP: Well, nobody knows
that for
a fact.
But do you want me to start
naming some of
the things that President Obama
does?
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:
Once again, he praised Russia's
strong man,
Vladimir Putin, even taking the
astonishing
step of suggesting that he
prefers the Russian
president to our American
president.
I was just thinking about all of
the presidents
that would just be looking at
one another
in total astonishment.
What would Ronald Reagan say
about a Republican
nominee who attacks America's
generals and
heaps praise on Russia's
president?
I think we know the answer.
JUDY WOODRUFF: For more on how
the candidates
view U.S.-Russia relations, we
turn to representatives
of both campaigns.
Philip Gordon advises Hillary
Clinton.
He was assistant secretary of
state for European
and Eurasian affairs when Mrs.
Clinton was
secretary of state.
And Boris Epshteyn, he advises
the Trump campaign.
He emigrated to the United
States from Russia
in the early 1990s.
He's a lawyer specializing in
investment banking
and finance and he worked for
John McCain's
campaign for president.
And we welcome both of you to
the "NewsHour."
Boris Epshteyn, let me start
with you.
So, when Donald Trump says that
Vladimir Putin
has been very much of a leader,
a great leader,
he says he has got high poll
ratings, is he
endorsing what Putin's action
have been, annexing
Crimea, backing the Assad regime
in Syria,
cracking down on the press?
BORIS EPSHTEYN, Senior Adviser,
Trump Campaign:
Absolutely not.
What Donald Trump said and what
he is saying
is that he will make sure that
America leads
and doesn't lead from behind.
And he will make sure that he
works with Vladimir
Putin, but does it in a way
that's in the
best interests of the United
States.
And if he does disagree with
Vladimir Putin
-- let's look at the history of
Soviet-U.S.
relations, U.S.-Russia
relations.
Here's some other presidents who
worked with
the Soviet Union and Russia,
FDR, JFK, Nixon,
Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush.
Hillary Clinton herself
attempted a failed
reset with Russia.
The Obama White House right now
is trying
to work with Russia on Syria.
It's failing at doing so, but
it's trying.
So, just because Hillary Clinton
failed doesn't
mean that Donald Trump won't
succeed.
He will succeed.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let me turn to
Philip Gordon.
Is it possible to praise Mr.
Putin as a leader,
but to disagree with his policy?
PHILIP GORDON, Former U.S.
Assistant Secretary
of State: I don't know.
I personally found Mr. Trump's
praise for
Mr. Putin troubling or even
chilling, frankly.
In a room full of military
veterans, to be
effusing about his great
leadership and how
strong he is and how popular he
is, while
disrespecting the American
president and American
generals, I don't know.
That was, I think, not just
troubling to me,
but to a lot of listeners and I
think, frankly,
to a lot of Republican listeners
as well.
Mr. Trump said that he thinks he
can get along
very, very well with Mr. Putin
and have very,
very good relations with Russia.
I'm sure he can, if he is
willing to turn
away from our NATO allies and
reconsider whether
Eastern Ukraine is really part
of the country,
and do whatever he can to
accommodate Mr.
Putin's views.
I'm sure that would lead to good
relations
with Mr. Putin.
But I think that's not what the
American people
expect from our foreign policy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Boris Epshteyn,
is that what
would be involved under a Trump
administration,
closer ties with Russia, but
likely at the
expense of relationships, long
relationships
with Europe, with Eastern
Europe?
BORIS EPSHTEYN: Absolutely not.
And, again, let's look at some
facts here.
Bill Clinton received
half-a-million dollars
for a 90-minute speech in
Moscow.
He then received a personal call
from Vladimir
Putin thanking him.
There is also a very famous
photograph of
the two of them grinning and
being very happy,
Mr. Putin and President Clinton.
So let's not act as if the
Clintons don't
have a long history of palling
around with
Russia and Vladimir Putin.
It's also on Hillary Clinton's
watch as the
secretary of state that Russia
gained control
of one-fifth of the uranium
produced in the
United States of America.
So it's actually the Clintons
who have been
way too cozy with the Russians.
(CROSSTALK)
BORIS EPSHTEYN: Donald Trump
will work with
Russia and will of course
continue the close
relationship we have with NATO,
as we well
as countries in Eastern Europe.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Philip Gordon,
what about the
point Mr. Epshteyn makes, that
other presidents,
including -- and secretaries of
state, including
Hillary Clinton, have talked
about a reset
with Russia, for example, tried
to mend relations?
PHILIP GORDON: Right.
No, look, the debate is not
whether we should
work with Russia.
It's in our interest to do so.
Secretary Clinton for four years
was part
of a policy of resetting Russian
relations
with Russia in our interests.
BORIS EPSHTEYN: And she failed.
PHILIP GORDON: And we got a lot
of things
done under -- in that context.
We got the Iran sanctions done.
We got an agreement by Russia to
allow us
to use Afghanistan to transit
supplies for
our forces.
We got a Security Council
resolution on Libya.
We got Russia into the WTO to
bring in to
it a rules-based trading system.
All of those things were in our
interest.
The point is not whether we
should work with
Russia.
The point is whether we should
sacrifice other
important interests to do so.
And while we...
(CROSSTALK)
PHILIP GORDON: Let me finish, if
I could.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let him finish
his point, and
I will come back.
PHILIP GORDON: While pursuing
those relations
with Russia, which are important
-- Russia
is an important country -- it is
also important
to stand by your friends and
allies in Europe,
defend your treaty commitment to
NATO allies,
stand by the sovereignty and
territorial integrity
of Ukraine.
And that seems to be the
difference.
It's not whether we pursue
relations with
Russia when we need to, but what
we're willing
to give them in order to have
that very, very
good relationship that Mr. Trump
seems to
be talking about.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Boris Epshteyn,
what is it
that Donald Trump would be
prepared to give,
to trade Russia, to concede to
Russia?
(CROSSTALK)
BORIS EPSHTEYN: Mr. Gordon
sounds a lot more
reasonable than his candidate.
But let's go again to the things
he mentioned.
The Iran sanctions, the Iran
deal has been
a disaster for the United States
of America.
We now know there are secret
causes that are
allowing Iran to keep uranium.
As far as Russia being in the
WTO, again,
a negative for the United States
of America
and a positive for Russia.
So, some of the examples that
you gave there
are actually again ways in which
Hillary Clinton
was too cozy to Russia, and did
things that
are in Russia's favor, not the
favor of the
U.S.
Donald Trump has said that he
will be absolutely
steadfast in his support for our
NATO allies,
as long as they keep to their
agreements of
paying 2 percent of their GDP to
the mutual
defense, which is exactly what
is in the original
NATO agreements.
(CROSSTALK)
PHILIP GORDON: It's actually
not.
What's in the agreement is a
treaty that says
we would come to their defense
if they are
attacked.
BORIS EPSHTEYN: And every
country is supposed
to spend 2 percent of their GDP.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let's let Mr.
Gordon respond.
Let's let Mr. Gordon respond.
BORIS EPSHTEYN: OK.
PHILIP GORDON: No, I was going
to the heart
of this matter, which is, the
issue of whether
Europeans should contribute more
to NATO,
I think, is a matter of
consensus.
I think Secretary Clinton
believes that, and
a series of U.S. presidents and
secretaries
of defense and state have urged
our European
partners.
BORIS EPSHTEYN: So, what is
wrong with Mr.
Trump saying that?
PHILIP GORDON: None, not a
single one, Republican
or Democrat, candidate or
official, has ever
said that, unless they do, our
solemn treaty
commitment to defend them is
open to question,
which is an invitation to
aggression in Europe.
That's what's so astonishing
about Mr. Trump's
position.
(CROSSTALK)
BORIS EPSHTEYN: You're
completely incorrect.
And here's why.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Boris Epshteyn,
let me just
come back to you.
When Donald Trump clearly says
he admires
Vladimir Putin, he thinks he's a
great leader,
what is it about him that he
admires?
BORIS EPSHTEYN: There are
specific things
about Vladimir Putin that Donald
Trump has
said are strong in terms of
leadership, in
terms of beating back radical
Islamic jihadism,
radical Islamic terrorism, which
Vladimir
Putin has done throughout
greater Russia,
and, again, the fact that Russia
does want
to work with the United States
in defeating
ISIS.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: But let me just
stop you there,
because, in Syria, haven't the
Russian forces
gone after the opponents of the
Assad regime,
rather than going after ISIS?
BORIS EPSHTEYN: Actually, Russia
has been
going after ISIS.
And if you look at the history
of the United
States in Syria, we have
absolutely no policy
in Syria.
We had that red line that was
crossed.
Hillary Clinton didn't have a
policy for Syria,
also didn't have a policy for
Libya, which
was another thing that Mr.
Gordon mentioned
working with Russia on.
Our policy in Libya was cause
for an American
ambassador to be murdered and
for Libya to
be a failed state run by ISIS,
again, another
place where we could be working
together with
together Russia.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now, let me stop
you there,
because we only have about 30
seconds, and
I want to give Mr. Gordon a
final chance to
respond.
BORIS EPSHTEYN: Sure.
Sure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Philip Gordon.
PHILIP GORDON: Well, we're
mostly talking
about foreign policy, but I
would come back,
Judy, to your question about Mr.
Trump's admiration
of Putin and his system.
BORIS EPSHTEYN: He never said
that.
PHILIP GORDON: And that, as I
said at the
beginning, was so troubling to
-- and one
even tries to figure out why
he's so admiring
of a leader who has cracked down
on journalists
and is suspected of using even
violence, cracked
down on civil society, ruling
with an iron
fist within Russia.
To look with admiration on that
sort of domestic
leadership, I think is just
really inconsistent
with American values.
BORIS EPSHTEYN: But Mr. Trump
never made those
comments.
You are putting those words in
his mouth,
Mr. Gordon.
And it's unfair to do so.
Hillary Clinton tried to worked
with Russia.
She failed.
(CROSSTALK)
PHILIP GORDON: ... flattery that
leads him
to say these things.
It's hard to understand.
BORIS EPSHTEYN: You're
incorrect, my friend.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We are going to
leave it there.
Gentlemen, we want to thank both
of you for
joining us, Boris Epshteyn,
Philip Gordon.
Thank you.
PHILIP GORDON: Thank you.
BORIS EPSHTEYN: Thanks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we turn now
from foreign
policy to an issue that
continues to grab
headlines in the campaign:
Donald Trump's
taxes and so far his refusal to
make them
public.
Hillary Clinton says he must be
hiding something,
while Trump himself has pledged
to release
them, but only when IRS is
finished its audits.
That is something that can last
seven years.
We want to get past all these
headlines.
And our Lisa Desjardins helps
put it all in
context.
LISA DESJARDINS: Let's start
with basic facts.
So far, Donald Trump has not
made his tax
returns or summaries on them
public.
And he gives a consistent
explanation.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
And I am under audit, a routine
audit.
And when the audit is complete,
I will release
my returns.
I don't know when that is going
to be.
But when the audit is complete,
I will release
my returns.
I have no problem with it.
It doesn't matter.
LISA DESJARDINS: But this is his
choice.
The IRS confirmed this year that
nothing prevents
Trump, or any of us, from
releasing personal
tax returns anytime.
Now, most of us don't have the
1,000-page
tower of returns that Trump
tweeted about
last year, but that's important.
You see, Trump's personal taxes
are also the
taxes of his company.
The Trump Organization, with its
500 associated
companies, files as a kind of
family business,
whose dealings are taxed as
Trump's personal
income, which brings us to the
bigger point:
What could Trump's taxes tell
us?
A lot.
How successful the businessman
actually is,
what ties does he have abroad,
how his companies
operate there, if and how much
he gives to
charity, and whether Trump pays
any taxes
at all.
Trump likes to bring that up
himself.
DONALD TRUMP: I pay as little as
possible.
I fight like hell to pay as
little as possible
for two reasons.
Number one, I'm a businessman.
And that's the way you're
supposed to do it.
LISA DESJARDINS: Now to
perspective.
How unusual is Trump's refusal
to release?
In modern politics, he is alone.
Since 1980, every president from
Ronald Reagan
to Barack Obama has released
their returns
publicly.
And so has each nominee.
John McCain released the fewest,
two years
of returns.
Hillary Clinton has released the
most, 39
years of returns.
But was anyone else under audit?
Yes, Richard Nixon.
RICHARD NIXON, Former President
of the United
States: People have got to know
whether or
not their president is a crook.
Well, I'm not a crook.
LISA DESJARDINS: Nixon wasn't
talking about
Watergate there.
He was talking about his
finances after an
IRS audit in 1973 showed he owed
more than
$400,000 in back taxes.
Nixon eventually released four
years of returns,
sparking the modern tradition.
Another option for Trump, like
fellow billionaire
politician Michael Bloomberg,
Trump could
release a summary, or the first
pages of his
taxes.
Or he could he release the taxes
that have
completed audits, those up to
the year 2008.
His response?
DONALD TRUMP: The only one that
cares is the
press, I will tell you.
And even the press, I tell you,
it's not a
big deal.
QUESTION: You don't think there
are voters
out there who...
DONALD TRUMP: I don't think so,
no.
I think people don't care.
LISA DESJARDINS: But is that
true?
Actually, a recent poll found
two-thirds of
likely voters think seeing
candidates' tax
returns is important.
And, in this election,
two-thirds of voters
don't agree on much.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Donald Trump's
tax returns
aren't the only way to gain
insight into his
financial dealings.
Trump's business record offers
another look.
William Brangham has that.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: To understand
Trump's vast
and varied business dealings,
we're joined
now by two men who've spent a
good deal of
time looking into those
businesses, as well
as talking with Trump at length
about his
career.
Marc Fisher is a senior editor
at The Washington
Post and co-author of the book
"Trump Revealed:
An American Journey of Ambition,
Ego, Money
and Power."
And Tim O'Brien is executive
editor of Bloomberg
View.
His book is called "Trump
nation: The Art
of Being the Donald."
Gentlemen, thank you both very
much for being
her.
Marc Fisher, I would like to
start with you.
The Trump campaign is predicated
in large
part on the idea that Trump is a
magnificent
businessman who can bring
America back to
prosperity.
And you have done a long
analysis of what
his business career is like.
Is that a fair characterization
of him?
Does he deserve that title?
MARC FISHER, The Washington
Post: Well, he's
certainly had a good deal of
success.
He's also had some terrible
failures.
His business career has been a
roller coaster.
He's been at great heights.
He dominated Atlantic City's
casino gambling
business for a time, but then he
overextended
himself there and actually ended
up cannibalizing
his own business and ended up
with six corporate
bankruptcies there.
Similarly, around the world,
he's had a number
of successes, but he's really
changed his
whole business model in recent
years, so that
he's taking on less debt, less
risk, because
that had not been going well for
him.
And so he has really retreated
and found a
new avenue in recent years,
where he essentially
rents out his name and uses his
name to allow
others to take the risk, foreign
investors
and others.
So they take the risk on
projects and he merely
rents out his name and gets a
guaranteed income
stream from that.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Tim O'Brien, I
would put
this same question to thank.
And I should say, for the
record, you are
one of the few journalists in
the world who
have actually seen some of
Trump's tax returns,
but because of a court order of
a suit brought
that Trump brought against you
for libel,
you are not allowed to talk
about them in
too much detail.
But tell us what you can about
them and whether
or not they shed any light on
whether he deserves
this reputation for having a
tremendous business
acumen.
TIM O'BRIEN, Executive Editor,
Bloomberg View:
Well, I do think that the tax
returns are
important.
I don't think he will release
them.
I think the reason he won't
release them is
because I think they would go
towards offering
substantiation around a bunch of
things that
Trump has made central to his
political campaign,
his track record as a business
person, how
charitable he is as a
philanthropist, his
operations overseas, and the
kinds of business
and financial conflicts that
would potentially
come to bear on him should he
end up in the
Oval Office.
And I do think it does come back
to yet another
referendum on his business
career.
And I think what's important to
remember about
him is that the Donald Trump of
the '80s and
the '90s was essentially a
creature of debt.
And the last time he really
operated a large
business that involved, you
know, complex
financial and managerial
decisions was when
he was running the Atlantic City
casinos,
which he essentially ended up
running into
the ground.
He put those through four
separate corporate
bankruptcies.
And, as we all know, he almost
went personally
bankrupt in the early 1990s.
And the Trump who emerged from
that is essentially
now a human shingle, as Marc
said.
He oversees a licensing
operation where he
puts his name on everything from
mattresses
and men's underwear to vodka and
buildings.
And then he's got a golf course
development
operation, and then essentially
a self-promotion
publicity machine that made
itself the most
visible during "The Apprentice"
years.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Marc, let's
talk a little
more specifically about that
business, one
of those businesses that Tim
just mentioned,
the casino business.
As you know, the Clinton
campaign has been
making a lot of hay about
Trump's time as
a casino operator.
They say he enriched himself,
left this trail
of bankruptcies and really
ruined a lot of
small businesses.
That's been a big part of their
argument against
him.
How true are those accusations?
MARC FISHER: They're quite
accurate.
I mean, he did have some early
success in
Atlantic City, but he had great
trouble making
the payments on the finance
notes that he
took out in order to build those
casinos.
He did have trouble paying and
in many cases
didn't pay some of his vendors
and contractors.
There was a series of lawsuits
about that.
We have a number of such vendors
and contractors
who we quote in the books saying
that their
small businesses were ruined by
Trump's failure
to pay them for work that they
did for his
casinos.
So there's a huge gap between
what Donald
Trump was able to do for himself
in Atlantic
City and what he -- the people
he ran roughshod
over in order to get there.
We asked him about this.
And he said: Look, I was looking
out for myself
and that other people took risks
to come along
with him and, if they failed,
that's their
problem.
We asked him, well, how does
that translate
into someone who needs to do
something for
all the people as president of
the United
States?
And he said: Look, it's just a
completely
different phase of my life.
I was doing this for Donald
Trump, and I didn't
likely care what was happening
to other people.
So there's a large trail of
destruction coming
out of the Atlantic City
experience.
But he did at various points
manage to make
sure that he had a guaranteed
income stream,
and he did manage to negotiate
with the banks
in such a way that he was able
to hold on
to those properties or at least
some portion
of them even after they had
essentially failed.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Tim O'Brien,
you looked
at this career for a long period
of time.
Are there any examples in
Trump's career that
do support his contention that
he is a strong,
smart, successful businessman
that might have
some bearing on him being
commander in chief?
TIM O'BRIEN: Well, I mean, this
all comes
back to, how do we want to
define success
and how do we want to define
business?
I think he has not been a
successful operator
of large enterprises.
The Trump Organization now is
essentially
a boutique operation.
At times, when it's mattered the
most, he
hasn't demonstrated strong
financial discipline.
On the campaign trail, already,
we have seen
a number of moments in which
he's actually
been financially unsophisticated
when he's
spoken about the debt markets,
the federal
debt, the Federal Reserve and
monetary policy,
fiscal policy.
There is a large degree of
ignorance around
someone who is saying that his
experience
as a businessperson qualifies
him for the
Oval Office.
And I think what he has been
successful as,
as a businessman, is
self-promotion.
He's a very self-assured
self-promoter.
But that's very different from
being a great
entrepreneur.
He is not a John Rockefeller.
He's not a Henry Ford or a Steve
Jobs or a
Mark Zuckerberg.
He's essentially a P.T.
Barnum.
And there's a real skill and
street-smart
approach he has around keeping
himself in
the public eye, keeping a
certain perception
about who he is front and center
with the
media, with his political
opponents, and with
voters.
But the reality is, there is a
-- there is
a very "Wizard of Oz" truth
about a lot of
the things surrounding Donald
Trump, that
when you just look at the fact
pattern around
his track record as a
businessperson and pull
the curtain back, you know,
there's a guy
there busily spinning the wheel
and myth-making.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right, Tim
O'Brien and
Marc Fisher, thank you both very
much for
being here.
MARC FISHER: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": a
poet trying
to change the face of Scotland;
and a boy's
struggle to read transformed
into a passion
for children's picture books.
But, first: a different take on
the fallout
from trading, and particularly
with China.
That issue has been, of course,
one of the
major ones we have heard about
throughout
this election season.
Our economics correspondent,
Paul Solman,
has the third in his series of
stories reported
from the waves of the California
shore and
beyond.
It's all part of Making Sense,
which airs
on Thursdays.
PAUL SOLMAN: In San Clemente,
California,
Brad Parks and Shad Eischen,
confined to wheelchairs
since their teens, about to
shred the surf.
SHAD EISCHEN, Surfer: I figured,
if I'm still
alive now, you know, this is the
least thing
that's going to worry me.
PAUL SOLMAN: OK, sit-down
surfing on a waveski,
but plenty of challenge if
you're paraplegic.
BRAD PARKS, Surfer: I'm having
just a blast
out here just meeting new guys
and being down
here and surfing.
PAUL SOLMAN: The man who
designed and shaped
their waveskis is surfing legend
Steve Boehne,
who regular viewers might recall
complaining
about unfair trade here on the
"NewsHour"
three years ago.
STEVE BOEHNE, Infinity
Surfboards: Ninety-five
percent of the boards being sold
in the world
weren't made by us in
California, who started
the surfboard industry.
They're being made in other
countries.
And so my workers are competing
for a job
against a guy in another country
who's making
a 10th of his wages.
PAUL SOLMAN: This has become a
main theme
of this year's presidential
campaign.
But it turns out Steve Boehne
was ahead of
the curve, or at least ahead of
most economists,
who have argued since Adam Smith
that trade
is the key to economic growth by
spurring
competition and thus lowering
prices, and
arguing that, in our era,
technology replaces
jobs, not cheap foreign labor.
GORDON HANSON, Economist: But as
we went into
the 2000s, with the rise of
China, the situation
changed.
PAUL SOLMAN: It's what economist
Gordon Hanson
learned from a soon-to-be
published academic
study he co-authored: that
Chinese imports
really did hurt U.S. wages and
employment,
but selectively.
GORDON HANSON: What we were
surprised by was
that those effects were not
distributed kind
of broadly and evenly across
blue-collar workers
in the United States, but really
concentrated
on industries and workers and
communities
that produce goods that compete
in the same
arenas that China does.
PAUL SOLMAN: Clothes, furniture,
low-end electronics,
in blue-collar strongholds and
key battleground
states like Pennsylvania and
Ohio.
GORDON HANSON: Those workers in
those regions
are the losers of globalization
in the United
States.
PAUL SOLMAN: You look as if
you're a painting
from the 1950s or something on
the floor.
DAVE NAYLOR, Surfboard Maker:
It's an abstract
that's created by accident.
PAUL SOLMAN: And while our
surfboard makers
are a long way from trade's
losers in the
Rust Belt, they feel their pain.
Dave Naylor, who coats the
boards with fiberglass,
told us back in 2013 that he was
earning less,
in real dollars, than he made 20
years before.
Today, Naylor says he's doing
better, but:
DAVE NAYLOR: Only for the reason
that, instead
of just working one job, I got a
little part-time
job too.
But it's -- I'm still not making
a lot more
money, you know?
PAUL SOLMAN: And how much is
that?
DAVE NAYLOR: I make about 40 a
year.
I have a tough time living on
it.
I mean, I have a tough time.
PAUL SOLMAN: What are you doing,
David?
(LAUGHTER)
DAVE BOEHNE, Infinity
Surfboards: I'm Snapchatting
this monumental, historic
moment.
PAUL SOLMAN: And while the boss'
sassy son
Dave is doing fine -- he's
Infinity's marketing
manager -- most of his friends
are not.
DAVE BOEHNE: They have jobs now,
but it's
not nearly as what they were
making before.
So, the future, I'm not sure.
It has seemed to be that way for
quite a while.
PAUL SOLMAN: So who did Dave
Boehne favor
for president?
DAVE BOEHNE: I was a Bernie guy.
PAUL SOLMAN: And that brings us
to the second
surprise of Gordon Hanson's
study.
GORDON HANSON: Areas that
initially leaned
Republican, when they were hit
harder by import
competition from China, moved
hard to the
right.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
Because China has our jobs.
GORDON HANSON: But areas that
leaned initially
Democratic leaned harder to the
left.
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS (I), Vermont: We
have lost
millions of decent-paying jobs.
That has got to end.
GORDON HANSON: So we're at this
complicated
moment in American history,
where economic
polarization and political
polarization are
interacting.
PAUL SOLMAN: Meanwhile, your
economics correspondent
was interacting with a wet suit,
prepping
for a surf session with Steve
Boehne, a moderate
Republican until the advent of
Donald J. Trump.
STEVE BOEHNE: Finally, all the
politicians
are talking about the free trade
agreements
and getting jobs back in
America.
And Trump was the first guy.
So, I was pretty gung-ho Trump.
But on his social issues, I have
a few problems.
And so, you know, I voted for
someone else
in the primary.
PAUL SOLMAN: Who did you vote
for in the primaries?
STEVE BOEHNE: I voted for
Bernie.
PAUL SOLMAN: Well, you can't
vote for Bernie
anymore.
STEVE BOEHNE: No, so I'm voting
for Hillary.
PAUL SOLMAN: Seventy miles to
the southeast,
Bob Grande, founder and CEO of
Quality Controlled
Manufacturing in Santee,
California, remains
a Trump supporter.
BOB GRANDE, CEO, Quality
Controlled Manufacturing:
Absolutely.
I don't condone all the rhetoric
and everything
that goes along with it, but you
know what?
I think our country needs a
little bit of
a wakeup to where we can really
start marching
and being more competitive in
the world.
Fair trade is so important to
being a healthy
business nation.
PAUL SOLMAN: One casualty of
unfair trade,
says Grande, is the decline of
the American
work force.
To find employees for his
high-end machine
shop, he has to train them,
since so few young
people have the skills or even
think of manufacturing
as a career option.
MICHAEL NIEMEYER, Quality
Controlled Manufacturing:
Well, to be honest, machining
never came to
mind.
PAUL SOLMAN: But Grande's
training academy,
six months and then a job
starting at $15
an hour, was better than Michael
Niemeyer's
(ph) alternatives.
MICHAEL NIEMEYER: Before this, I
was bouncing
around minimum wage jobs,
cooking food, deliveries,
cleaning, maintenance type
stuff.
PAUL SOLMAN: James Halladay
worked in a rental
yard.
JAMES HALLADAY, Quality
Controlled Manufacturing:
I was working from 7:30 in the
morning until
2:00 in them morning, sometimes
six days a
week.
PAUL SOLMAN: Seven-thirty a.m.
to 2:00 a.m.?
How can you live like that?
JAMES HALLADAY: You don't.
And the problem is, is a lot of
the people
I know are working like that.
And that's just their day-to-day
life, get
up, go to work, go home, go to
bed.
Get up the next morning, do the
same thing.
PAUL SOLMAN: Grande's machine
shop is booming,
but only, he says, by making
high-end parts
for airplanes, for example, that
foreign competitors
still can't match.
BOB GRANDE: The reason that
we're here now,
still in business, is because we
do the most
complex machining there is.
And China isn't there yet.
PAUL SOLMAN: Same story we heard
from the
king of custom surfdom, Steve
Boehne.
STEVE BOEHNE: We do it by making
the latest
design.
The good surfer, you know, this
is his sport.
He wants the best surfboard he
can buy, just
like the best golfer wants the
best golf clubs.
PAUL SOLMAN: And it's not just
he, because
I'm looking out there and there
are an awful
lot of she's out there.
STEVE BOEHNE: That's right.
They're all on boards made
overseas.
And they're all beginners.
Well, in a couple of years,
they're going
to be getting boards from me,
because they're
going to want a better board.
PAUL SOLMAN: Better boards, and
new ones like
the waveski, which work for the
disabled and
those of diminishing ability as
well.
It's not for nothing this
stretch of coast
is called Old Man's Beach.
But back to business.
How long can Steve Boehne
survive if trade
deals don't address supposedly
unfair advantages,
like cheap Chinese boards that
glide into
U.S. ports duty-free, while
other countries
try to block U.S.-made boards
with tariffs?
The proposed Trans-Pacific
Partnership, a
giant free trade deal with
Pacific Rim countries,
but not China, would actually
kill those tariffs.
But, for now, Boehne says he's
forced to import
and sell cheap Chinese boards in
his shop,
and for export to Australia and
Japan, make
Infinity boards in Vietnam.
STEVE BOEHNE: I'm playing the
game the way
I'm given it, given the rules.
PAUL SOLMAN: So, I put the
question to economist
Gordon Hanson.
Trade barriers, tariffs against
Chinese goods
would preserve the jobs of
American workers,
wouldn't it?
GORDON HANSON: That would bring
manufacturing
production back to the United
States.
There's no guarantee it would
bring manufacturing
jobs back.
As that production came back, it
would be
much more automated, much more
capital-intensive.
PAUL SOLMAN: So we're not going
to get the
jobs back, no matter what we do?
GORDON HANSON: Realistically,
we're not.
Lower-end jobs in manufacturing,
jobs that
were part of the American middle
class in
the 1950s, and 1960s and 1970s,
those jobs
are gone.
What we have got to be doing is
looking forward.
PAUL SOLMAN: Riding the waves,
gingerly, from
Southern California.
If you turn me into a surfer, I
will never
forgive you.
Paul Solman for the "PBS
NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now a Scottish
literary talent
whose work on identity and
belonging, among
other themes, has helped propel
her to a unique
role and a popular writer there.
Jeffrey Brown has our profile.
JACKIE KAY, Scottish National
Poet: "And this
is my country, says the
fisherwoman from Jura.
Mine, too, says the child from
Canna and Iona.
Mine, too, says the Brain
family.
And mine, says the man from the
Polish deli."
JEFFREY BROWN: Jackie Kay wrote
her poem "Threshold"
for the Scottish Parliament and
a special
guest, Queen Elizabeth.
JACKIE KAY: Let's blether some
more about
doors, revolving doors and
sliding doors.
JEFFREY BROWN: In the wake to of
the recent
Brexit vote to leave the
European Union, it
was a plea to keep doors and the
country open
to the outside world.
As Scotland's new national poet,
Kay made
it personal.
JACKIE KAY: Scotland's changing
faces -- look
at me!
I like the idea of trying to
change the face
of Scotland.
But, traditionally, when
somebody thinks of
somebody Scottish, they see a
white man with
red hair in a kilt and a -- and
they don't
see me.
JEFFREY BROWN: Jackie is the
adopted daughter
of John and Helen Kay.
Her birth mother Scottish.
Her father was then a Nigerian
student studying
in Scotland.
JACKIE KAY: I was an
illegitimate child.
And being picked to be a
national poet is
probably a pretty legitimate
thing.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: I will say.
She grew up in Glasgow in a
loving home, but
very unaware of her difference
in the outside
society.
She told her story in a
bestselling memoir,
"Red Dust Road."
JACKIE KAY: There weren't many
positive stories
about adoption.
And when I was growing up, we
just saw negative
stories about adoption.
Every story that you heard was
horrendous.
And I wanted to try and tell a
positive story
about adoption.
So, I felt a bit like one of my
favorite writers,
Toni Morrison.
She said she wrote the story she
wanted to
read.
And I did that, too.
I wrote the poems I wanted to
read and I wrote
about the experiences I wanted
to find.
JEFFREY BROWN: She began to
write as a student
at the University of Stirling
and, over the
years, has authored volumes of
poetry, novels,
children's books and more.
Often, the work speaks directly
to her own
experience, as in the poem "In
My Country."
JACKIE KAY: "A woman passed by
me in a full
watchful circle, as if I were a
superstition
or the worst dregs of her
imagination.
So, when she finally spoke, her
words spliced
into bars of an old wheel, a
segment of air.
Where do you come from?
Here, I said.
Here, these parts."
JEFFREY BROWN: Kay now has a
major public
role in this poetry-loving
country and she
intends to use it to expand the
voices of
Scotland.
JACKIE KAY: You could have a
real long, long,
long poem with all of the
different things
that you come from, couldn't
you?
JEFFREY BROWN: We joined her
recently on a
return to Stirling, where she
was working
with local high school students,
part of a
project called Out of Bounds,
giving a greater
voice to black and Asian British
poets.
JACKIE KAY: Want to have a
mixture of images
and metaphors as well.
JEFFREY BROWN: Kay encouraged
the students
to play with language in her
poems, something
she herself loves to do.
JACKIE KAY: I found the coin,
and I found
the (INAUDIBLE) in the sparking
granite June,
just as the (INAUDIBLE) was
coming (INAUDIBLE)
just as the coyotes (INAUDIBLE)
at the moon.
JEFFREY BROWN: Her official
title is one she
clearly loves.
She is Scotland's Makar, rhymes
with lacquer,
she told me.
JACKIE KAY: It's an old Scottish
word.
And it means maker, maker of
words.
JEFFREY BROWN: I mean, it's a
great word because
of this idea to make, right?
And people -- I don't know if
people think
about poetry, as something
that's made.
JACKIE KAY: Well, a poem -- we
make a poem
in the way other people might
make a table.
A poem is a physical thing that
you make.
And, for me, Makar fits
perfectly.
And it seems to have kind of
captured people's
imagination, because people keep
stopping
me and say, Makar,
congratulations, even in
other -- so, for some reason, it
just sort
of excited people.
I think it's maybe -- it's
because there's
not been a black national poet
in this country
before maybe.
Or I don't know.
But, for some reason, here you
are.
What are you doing here talking
to me?
(CROSSTALK)
JEFFREY BROWN: I don't know.
I mean, I do know.
Because I wanted to talk to you.
(LAUGHTER)
JACKIE KAY: Just as granite
comes (INAUDIBLE)
then there will be grown folks
search in vain,
tracking during the past in the
rain, for
as long as you would call a
stain a stain.
JEFFREY BROWN: Jackie Kay will
take her infectious
love of poetry and country to
every corner
of Scotland.
JACKIE KAY: Come bend the living
room.
Come join our brilliant
gathering.
JEFFREY BROWN: From Scotland,
I'm Jeffrey
Brown for the "PBS NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Next, to another
look at the
joy of opening up literature to
new audiences.
It's the latest in our Brief But
Spectacular
episodes, where we ask
interesting people
to describe their passions.
Tonight, we hear from
illustrator Christian
Robinson, so who works to ensure
that picture
books become more inclusive and
empower all
children.
His new book is school's first
day of school.
CHRISTIAN ROBINSON, "School's
First Day of
School": Growing up, I actually
-- I didn't
have that close of a
relationship with books.
I actually struggled to read.
And so I was definitely drawn to
books with
pictures.
I just loved that, you know, so
much could
be communicated with just an
image.
I was raised by my grandmother.
We didn't have a lot growing up,
but I at
least always had a pencil,
paper.
I couldn't control the
circumstances around
me, but I could at least decide
what I wanted
on that piece of paper, what
sort of world
I wanted to create.
Early on, my drawings were sort
of influenced
by whatever was around me.
So, like most kids, I watched
"Aladdin" and
then I drew Aladdin.
I watched "Jurassic Park," and
then I drew
a dinosaur eating somebody.
I don't know so much if I was
motivated by
people telling me that you're
talented or
you're good at what you do, as
much as it
was really just like a form of
escape and
just sort of a passion of mine.
When you look at a picture book,
you might
think story by the author and
illustrations
by the illustrator.
The story is actually something
that happens
when the author and the
illustrator come together.
It's what happens on the page.
On my books, I like to have
written by or
words by the author and pictures
by the illustrator.
Illustrating an entire book can
be overwhelming
and scary.
So, what I like to do is start
small, tiny
doodles, which are a storyboard,
and I do
them on really tiny little
Post-it notes.
And they sort of just help me
figure out how
I want to begin to tell the
story.
I go on to design and color and
figuring out
what I want the color -- the
characters to
look like, what I want the
backgrounds to
look like.
It's important for me to tell
stories that
reflect the diverse world that
we live in.
Children need to see themselves
in books.
They need to see their gender.
They need to see their color,
hair texture,
their disability, themselves.
Picture books especially are
like many children's
first introduction to the world.
Seeing yourself is almost like a
message.
It's saying, you matter, you are
visible,
and you're valuable.
My name is Christian Robinson,
and this is
my Brief But Spectacular take on
telling stories
with pictures.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you can watch
additional
Brief But Spectacular episodes
on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour/Brief.
Now to our "NewsHour" shares,
something that
caught our eye that might be of
interest to
you, too.
Two military veterans stepped
down from their
duties this summer, but they
weren't your
typical soldiers.
The "NewsHour"'s Julia Griffin
reports on
a pair of Army horses that were
free to a
good home.
JULIA GRIFFIN: Every morning,
rain or shine,
the Caisson horses of the Army's
Old Guard
fall in line at Arlington
National Cemetery.
Together, two teams of horses
and their human
counterparts execute eight
expertly choreographed
funeral processions a day for
deceased military
officers and service members
killed in action.
It's a precise job that requires
a particular
kind of horse.
1ST LT.
AUSTIN HATCH, U.S. Army: We're
looking more
for behavior.
Teamwork is a big part and then
being able
to stay calm with the flags
waving around
or loud sounds in the
background.
We're trying to keep them as
calm as possible,
so that the processions go
smoothly.
JULIA GRIFFIN: Horses typically
serve a 10-year
tenure with the Caisson unit,
but when one
horse, Kennedy, began to act out
and another
named Quincy acquired a painful
ailment in
his hoof, the Army decided it
was time the
two be retired from service.
1ST LT.
AUSTIN HATCH: They have worked
extremely hard
for this country and honoring
its fallen,
so we look for the best homes
for them, retirement
homes, where they will be well
taken care
of after their service.
CARROLL URZENDOWSKI, Former U.S.
Army Soldier:
They actually deserve the best
home that can
be provided for them.
And I felt that my wife and
children and myself,
we could do that for them.
JULIA GRIFFIN: Carroll
Urzendowski, a former
platoon sergeant with the
Caisson unit, was
chosen to adopt Kennedy out of
dozens of applicants
from across the country.
The Standardbred horse, who had
once served
as the iconic riderless horse,
will now live
out his golden years at
Urzendowski's 85-acre
ranch in Roganville, Texas.
CARROLL URZENDOWSKI: It's a
great honor to
know that every day, the horse
that I adopted,
he provided that service to his
country, and
then I could teach my children
as they get
older what Kennedy actually
provided for the
nation.
KRISTEN WHITTAKER, Adopted
Quincy: This was
a big, big honor for us.
JULIA GRIFFIN: Kristen Whittaker
and her husband,
Sean Sutton, a former sergeant
in the Army
National Guard, were selected to
adopt Quincy.
Heated stables and a trained
medical staff
await the Quarter Horse at their
farm just
south of Boston.
KRISTEN WHITTAKER: We are lucky
enough to
be able to provide some medical
intervention
for him and some corrective
shoeing.
It's the same responsibility
that I have to
any of my own horses, give them
a quality
of life and hopefully keep them
really happy
through their elder years.
And he will go to his forever
home now.
JULIA GRIFFIN: Two horses who
served in the
most solemn service, the burial
of those killed
in war, now being offered new
homes by military
veterans.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Julia Griffin
in Fort Belvoir, Virginia.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What a lovely
story.
On the "NewsHour" online right
now: The lionfish
was once an alluring pet, but
now it's a predatory
threat in the coral reefs of the
Atlantic
Ocean.
You can track their rise, you
can look into
the belly of the predator and
learn how people
are trying to reverse this
human-made dilemma.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening
with Mark Shields and David
Brooks.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and
good night.